{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs44 \cf0 [Susan] Now it
\f1 \'92
\f0 s time to roll this out to the public, but we
\f1 \'92
\f0 re not going to do this all at once as one big curtain reveal. These changes are like dominos, so they fall in a certain order. Once we accomplish one task, the next task can be completed much more easily.\
\
Create the new Campus Life page.\
[Read slide aloud.] First, we needed to create a new Campus Life page. In this screenshot, the navigation items are in the order we plan to put them in.\
\
Implement new header on Fields of Study pages.\
[Read the slide aloud.]\
The Fields of Study pages are already in a responsive template, but currently using the Admissions navigation. We can then make observations and make sure everything is working correctly. [When we roll out] this new navigation, we will have a complete responsive template that we can then use for other pages. \
\
Convert the global header to the new header.\
[Read slide aloud.]\
Admissions is in a separate template, so that will be a different project we can start concurrently. We
\f1 \'92
\f0 ve already begun that project.\
\
Begin migrating key pages into the new responsive template.\
From here, we
\f1 \'92
\f0 ll start migrating prioritized key pages into that new responsive template.\
\
Convert Admissions pages to new template.\
[Read slide aloud.]\
Possibly over several steps.\
\
Timeline\
Early October: create new Campus Life page.\
Same day: implement new header and footer, including new navigation, on Fields of Study pages.\
Mid-October: implement new header and footer on full site.\
October\'96December: begin migrating key pages, including restructuring the homepage, to the new template.\
October\'96December: iteratively convert Admissions to new header and new template.\
July 2014: complete whole site conversion, estimated around 6,000 individual pages.}